*label chapter6

[b]Chapter 6 - The Hollow Within[/b]

It’s dusk.

The garden holds its breath.

Crickets begin their chorus in the underbrush, soft and uncertain, as if unsure whether it’s safe to sing. 
The sky is a darkening bruise above the trees—deep purples bleeding into the cold grey of an oncoming storm. 
A wind moves through the hedgerow, dry and whispering, like it carries secrets too old to speak aloud.

You step outside and the earth greets you with the chill of rain not yet fallen. 
The scent of damp soil clings to the air, heavy with rot and root and the faint sweetness of dying things.

Your mother walks ahead of you, silent.

Her boots crunch against the stones of the path, then soften as she moves into the wild grass. [i]She doesn’t look back.[/i] 
Just moves with that same determined quiet she’s always had—the kind that says she’s already made her decision.

You pass the garden’s edge, where order slips into overgrowth.

Past the crooked herb beds—once carefully tended, now spilling wild with thistle and mint.
Past the old swing, its rope sagging, seat tilted as if it remembers laughter that no longer visits.
Past the wheelbarrow that’s been half-swallowed by ivy, its metal rusted, flaking like old blood.
*page_break The air grows thicker

Time feels slower here, like each step drags a shadow behind it.

She stops.

At the edge of the garden—where the fence is broken and the wild things have begun to reclaim what was theirs. 
Where nettles rise like sentinels and the grass is long enough to whisper against your legs. There, the world feels... thinner. 
Like the skin between what you know and what you’ve forgotten is wearing through.

The [i]yew tree[/i] waits.

It looms black against the darkening sky. Its trunk gnarled and wide, twisted with centuries. Branches claw up like reaching arms, or ribs around a hollow heart. 
The bark looks burned in places, split deep with age. There’s a presence to it—something that [i]hums[/i] under your skin.

You’ve passed this tree a thousand times, but tonight, it looks at you differently.
Or maybe you’re the one finally seeing it.

You never climbed it. No one did.

Some things aren’t meant to be touched.

“It’s older than Ashwood,” she says, voice low.
“Older than the Church. Maybe older than language.”
*page_break You step closer

The air here smells different. Resin and damp moss. Earth that hasn’t seen sunlight in a hundred years.

She reaches for the trunk—finds a knot in the bark, half-hidden in shadow. Her hand brushes it, searching. Then she turns to you.

[i]“The key.”[/i]

You hand it over.

She fits it into a hollow you never noticed before.

And something clicks.

Low. Deep. Like the earth swallowing a breath.

The yew trembles. Just once. Its trunk groans like bones shifting.

Then a seam appears.

The bark pulls inward. The roots split.
A passage opens beneath the tree, where no passage should exist.

Stone stairs descend into dark, curved like a spiral unfurling from a shell.

Your mother lifts a lantern. Flame flickers against her face.

“There’s something you need to see,” she says.
“Something I should have shown you long ago.”

And without waiting, she steps inside.

Down into the dark.
*choice
	#Follow her without question.
		You don’t ask. You don’t speak. There’s a gravity in her steps that tells you this moment has waited for years. Maybe your whole life.
		The air is too thick with what’s coming, and part of you already knows—whatever truths wait below that yew, they’ve always belonged to you.
		So you move. Quiet. Resolute. Into the dark.
		*goto yew_con

	#Ask her what’s happening.
		You stop just shy of the roots. Your voice is quiet, but steady.

		“What is this?”
		
		She doesn’t answer right away. Just turns, the lantern casting her face in gold and shadow.
		“A truth I’ve kept too long,” she says. “A truth that might save you. Or ruin you.”
		Her eyes hold something that looks like guilt. Or fear. Or love.
		Maybe all three.
		*goto yew_con
		
	#Look back at the house before going.
		You turn. Just once.
		The house stands in the falling dusk—small, crooked, ordinary. The door ajar, the satchel open on the table, the scent of old tea still lingering.
		You’ve lived there your whole life, and yet suddenly, it feels... distant. As though the person who belonged in that place no longer fits its frame.
		You face forward again, and the world seems sharper. Like it’s waiting to see who you’ll become next.
		*goto yew_con

	#Touch the tree before following.
		You reach out. Fingers brush the bark.
		It’s warm. Not like sunlight—like breath. Like pulse.
		The grooves in the wood shift beneath your skin—not visibly, but subtly, like something responding to your presence. 
		You feel the weight of something ancient pressing back. Not unkind. Just... watching.
		Something has been waiting for your touch. You don’t know how you know that.
		But you do.		
		*goto yew_con

*label yew_con
Inside, the tunnel closes around you.

The walls are packed earth, soft and pulsing with the wet breath of root and stone.
Thick tendrils run along the sides—roots like veins, like ribs. They twist and coil, some thick as arms, some finer than hair, all winding downward.

The sound of your feet is swallowed almost instantly.

It’s not silence. Not quite.

There’s a sound—whispers. Not voices. Not language. Just the impression of something moving, barely beyond hearing. Like breath caught in stone. 
Like memory trying to speak.

The deeper you go, the colder it gets.

But not dead cold. Not cruel.

[i]Sacred.[/i]

The passage turns. Sharp angles. Sudden drops. The walls sweat and tremble like something is dreaming all around you.
Somewhere behind, the earth has closed again.

The way back no longer exists.

You glance at your mother. She walks like someone who has done this before. Not often—but enough.
[i]She doesn’t look back.[/i]

You understand why.
Some things must be faced forward.

And below, the passage waits. Old. Alive.
You are not welcome here. Not yet.
*page_break But you are expected

Your mother’s lantern casts more shadow than light. Her footsteps are steady, but you can hear the strain in her breath.
The roots brush your shoulders now. The tunnel narrows. You have to duck.

You break the silence first.

“How did you find this place?”

She doesn’t answer immediately. When she does, her voice is low, almost reverent.

“I didn’t. She did.”

You know who she means. Even if you don’t have a name for her yet.
The woman who gave you life. The one who left nothing behind—except you.

You let the silence stretch a little longer.

You press your hand to the wall as the tunnel dips again. The soil is cold. Wet. Living.

“Why didn’t you tell me?”

That stops her.

She turns, holding the lantern low so her face is half-lit, half-shadow.

“Because it wouldn’t have been safe. And because you weren’t ready.”

Her eyes linger on yours.

“Maybe you’re still not. But we’ve run out of time to wait.”
*page_break Next

Your boots scrape softly against the dirt. The lantern flickers against the walls—earthy and close, like a heartbeat under stone. 
The tunnel twists, and so does the silence.

You don’t ask more questions. But something shifts behind your mother’s voice when she speaks again.

“My brother brought her to me.”

You glance toward her, surprised by the edge of feeling there.

“She was hurt. Hunted. He… he found her in the woods, barely standing.”

A silence blooms between you. She doesn’t stop walking, but her voice dips lower. More careful.

“I thought it was just kindness at first. [i]Duty.[/i] He was always the gentler one between us. But it wasn’t that.”

She brushes a hand along the wall absently, fingers trailing soil like threads in a tapestry.

[i]“They loved each other.”[/i]

There’s grief in it still—years-old, worn down, but not dead.

“He was the only one who saw her for what she truly was. Not something dangerous. Not something broken. 
Just… a woman who had lost everything but hadn’t stopped fighting.”

You say nothing. The air feels thick with the weight of ghosts.

She swallows, barely audible.

"They were together for only a short while." 
*page_break "And then the Church came."

There’s a pause, a breath caught in the hollow of the passage.

“She gave up her life to protect you. And he—he never forgave me for surviving when she didn’t. It changed him.”

*label questions_am
You feel that story settle deep in your ribs, like something cold curling around bone.

The tunnel opens wider now. The scent of moss and old paper lingers ahead.
You’re close.
*choice
	*disable_reuse #Who were my real parents?
		You stop in a dusty alcove lined with old portraits and faded drawings. Your mother pulls out a torn picture, her fingers trembling as she traces the faces.
		“Your mother was a woman of strength and secrets… and your father, a man who loved her deeply but vanished after you were born.”
		The silence feels heavy, wrapping around you like a shadow.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #Why did my mother have to sacrifice herself?
		In a dim chamber lit only by flickering torches, she holds up a worn cloak, stained with old, dried blood.
		“She stayed behind when the soldiers came—so you could escape. Her last act was a shield, protecting you from a fate far worse.”
		Her voice cracks, and you catch the sorrow in her eyes.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #Did she have family? Anyone who might still be alive?
		You enter a cramped room filled with shelves of yellowed letters and odd trinkets. She pulls out a faded letter, her hands shaking slightly.
		“Her family was scattered and hunted. Some might still live in shadows, but none we can find. They vanished like whispers on the wind.”
		She sighs, tucking the letter away, and you wonder how much was truly lost.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #Was my father a witcher too?
		You watch as your mother’s eyes darken with pain and resolve.
		“No. Your father was a soldier—a man of duty and honor, fighting a war far from here. He wasn’t one of them, but he loved your mother fiercely.”
		Her fingers brush a faded soldier’s token hanging from a chain around her neck, a silent testament to his sacrifice.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #Why did no one tell me about them before?
		She leads you to a small altar, the candles long extinguished.
		“Because the truth could have cost you everything. I promised your mother I’d keep you safe—even if it meant silence.”
		Her voice is steady but heavy with sorrow.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #What happened to them during the witch hunts?
		You descend deeper into the cave, the damp air thick with history.
		“Your mother faced the Church’s wrath alone. Your father was away at war, fighting battles you never heard of. 
		He returned too late to save her, and the truth was buried beneath the ashes.”
		Her voice trembles as she speaks, and you feel the weight of loss that time cannot heal.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #Did anyone betray her?
		A cold breeze slips through cracks in the stone, raising goosebumps on your skin. She hardens, her eyes darkening.
		“There was a betrayal. Another witch, desperate to save herself, gave up their location. It broke her heart… and tore us apart.”
		You sense the anger simmering beneath her calm.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #Why did you take me in?
		She stops before a small shrine where a single glowing flower flickers softly.
		“Because your mother was my closest friend—and because I promised to protect you. You’re the last of her bloodline.”
		Her voice softens, barely above a whisper, and you feel the depth of her promise.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #What do I need to know now?
		She hands you a worn leather-bound book, the pages filled with strange symbols and ancient writing.
		“You must learn the language of the witches, understand their power—and prepare. The Church is hunting, and your past will catch up.”
		Her eyes lock with yours, fierce and unyielding, and you know there is no turning back.
		*goto questions_am

	*disable_reuse #Where is my father now?
		You swallow hard, the flickering lantern casting long shadows on the rough cave walls.
		“Where is he now?” you ask, voice barely more than a whisper.

		Your mother’s gaze shifts away, a shadow passing over her features.
		“He never returned from the war. Officially, they say he’s missing—lost in a battle that claimed many. But sometimes, 
		I wonder if he’s still out there somewhere, trapped in a fight that never ends.”

		She pulls her cloak tighter around her shoulders, eyes reflecting the flicker of the flame.
		“Whatever fate holds for him, you carry a piece of both their hearts. And that’s why you must be ready.”
		*goto questions_am

	#There is nothing else to say
		*goto after_con_s

*label after_con_s
The passage widens suddenly, opening into a cavern that feels alive with age.
Stone walls curve around you like the ribs of some ancient beast, carved but softened by time.
Rows of shelves, hewn from the rock itself, stretch away, crowded with tomes and scrolls bound in cracked leather and faded cloth. 
The air is thick with the musk of old parchment and earth.

Clusters of crystals hang from the ceiling like frozen fruit, catching what little light filters down from a narrow fissure far above — 
a thin shaft of moonlight, impossible yet there. It dances across a still pool of water at the cavern’s center, casting ripples of silver on the walls.

Symbols, carved long ago, glow faintly in the shadows — sigils of protection, remembrance, and power.

Your mother’s voice breaks the silence, gentle but resolute:
“This place belonged to the Daughters of Venora — a sanctuary, hidden from a world that would hunt them.”

She pauses, eyes darkening with memory.
“Your mother… she was one of them. A witch, in the truest sense — a woman who lived by the earth’s pulse and the strength of her own will.”

Her hand brushes a worn, embroidered cloth draped over a stone altar.
“She died protecting you. When the purges came, she chose to stand between you and the blades.”

You look at her, surprised —
“She was your closest friend. Closer than most ever knew.”

Her gaze softens, almost tender.
“No one knows I took you in. It’s been my secret. My burden.”

She turns to you, eyes steady and fierce.
“The Church will come again. They always do. But you… you’re beginning to awaken. And with awakening comes choice.”

Her voice lowers to a whisper, yet it carries weight beyond the cavern’s walls:
“They’ll say your mother was wicked. That she called on shadows. But what she called was a choice. And what she gave… [i]was you[/i].”

The silence that follows is heavy, filled with the echoes of lives lost and futures yet to be forged.
*page_break Next

You stand in the hush of the sanctum, the stone beneath your boots cool and dry. 
Your mother — not by blood, but by choice — crosses the chamber with practiced ease. 
Her hand trails the surface of an ancient table, disturbing a fine layer of dust. She moves like someone revisiting a room in a long-forgotten home.

You follow her to the edge of the pool. The water is so still, so clear, it’s hard to tell where reflection ends and truth begins.

“I waited,” she says quietly, “for the day I’d have to bring you here.”
She glances up at the light pouring from the crack in the stone ceiling. “I hoped it wouldn’t come.”

You don’t speak — not yet. The air is too thick with things unsaid.

“I’m not like her,” she says at last, barely above a whisper. “I don’t have… that power. I don’t understand it. Not the way she did.”

She doesn’t look at you — just stares into the water like it might hold something she’s lost.

“I was a midwife. I helped people. That was all I knew. Until the night she came to me — bleeding, barely able to stand, carrying you wrapped in a cloak.”
Her voice catches. “She didn’t beg. She didn’t cry. She just looked me in the eye and said, ‘Keep ${possessive_pronouns} safe. 
Hide ${possessive_pronouns} where even the fire can’t find ${possessive_pronouns}.’”

You can feel your own heartbeat now — louder than before.
*page_break Next

“She never told me what you were, not exactly. But I knew she was being hunted. And I knew what it meant, to carry a child the Church would see as impure. 
I took you. I raised you.”
Her voice trembles, then steadies. “Not because I understood your blood, or her gift. But because she asked.”

She steps aside and gestures to the stone table. The cloth bundle lies waiting. The pendant. The knife. The letter.

“She left these here, in this place. This sanctuary belonged to women like her. [i]Witches, maybe.[/i] Maybe more than that. 
I’ve never dared to touch the language in her books — it’s like it’s alive.”

Her gaze sharpens. “But you’re starting to feel it, aren’t you?”

You nod. Slowly.

“I can’t teach you what she knew.” She touches your cheek — gently, reverently. 
“But I can tell you what I saw. What I felt. And I can help you find the ones who still remember.”

Thunder rolls again — closer.

“I’m not a witch,” she says softly. “But I have always been your mother.”

And somehow, that’s the only magic that matters.
*page_break Next

Your mother walks ahead, careful not to touch the stone shelves or the suspended clusters of crystals. 
Dust and silence have claimed this place, and her presence feels like an apology.

She stops at the center — where the pool reflects the impossible sliver of moonlight above. Her voice is steady, but her hands tremble.

“She called it [i]Kireth’nal[/i],” she murmurs. 
“Said it meant… [i]‘the last breath that remembers.’[/i] That’s where we are. Where she came, when there was nowhere left to run.”

She kneels and pulls open the cloth bundle — the one you carried here.

Inside lies a worn pendant of bone and silver, wrapped in a pale scrap of fabric stitched with curling, unfamiliar words.

*page_break You reach out

The moment your fingers graze the cloth, your breath catches. Not pain — something deeper. A shiver, threading beneath your ribs.

The words on the fabric seem to shift, just slightly. They don’t change. They recognize you.

“That’s her writing,” your mother says. 
“That’s her tongue. I couldn’t read it. I never could. But I kept it… hoping maybe you’d feel it, when the time was right.”

You lift the scrap closer. Your lips move before your mind can stop them.

[i]“Yen vael’theren... sha mossira.”[/i]

The words rise from you like steam from cold earth. Not learned — [i]remembered[/i].

Your mother gasps.

“What did you just say?”

You don’t know. Not exactly. But the feeling remains.
A phrase that means:

“I remember the blood beneath the moss.”

You press the fabric to your chest. You can feel the other language now — humming at the edge of waking. 
[i]Vérryn — the Living Tongue.[/i] And beyond that, something colder. Deeper. Waiting. [i]Es’shael.[/i]

“There’s more,” your mother says gently. “Scrolls. Books. Things she left behind for you. I never touched them. But they’re yours now.”

Her gaze is full of a grief she’s never spoken.

“I couldn’t teach you. But I kept the door open. I kept the breath warm.”
*set knows_eshael true
*set knows_verryn true
*page_break Next

The stone table is worn with time and rain, its surface soft with moss at the edges. 
Cold radiates from it—not the sharp cold of winter, but the old kind, settled into bone. A quiet kind. The kind that keeps.

Laemir doesn’t speak right away. She sets the lantern down, adjusts the wick. Light blooms low and amber, casting long shadows. 
Then she places the bundle on the stone: wrapped in silk that catches the light like water.

She doesn’t look at you as she unwraps it. The cloth peels away with a hush. Inside—a shallow wooden box, dark with age. No lock. No seal. 
But still, it feels like opening it asks something.

You feel it the moment she lifts the lid.

The breath of the past, thick as incense.

Ribbons, pale and fraying, stained with script that flickers in and out of sight. A small bowl. A vial of ink—black, yes, but not empty. 
It smells of something scorched, something sweet. Ash and pressed petals. Underneath these, folded notes. Pages faded soft at the edges, ink lifted but not gone.

Your heart knows the handwriting before your mind does.

The breath catches sharp.

Laemir watches the box, not you. “She wrote that for you,” she says. Her voice is quiet. Not reverent, not mournful. Just honest. “In case.”

Her hand moves toward the ink but stops just short. She doesn’t touch it.

“I don’t know the words,” she says, “not really. I was never meant to.” She glances at you now. Her gaze isn’t heavy—it doesn’t press. But it holds. 
“But I kept them. Because she asked me to. And because someone had to.”

She pushes the bowl and ink toward you, slow.

“This isn’t language like we use it. Witchtongue—your mother called it Vérryn—isn’t spoken. Not truly. It’s remembered. Felt.”

She lifts a ribbon between her fingers. 
“Each symbol is tied to a shape of breath. A weight in the body. A memory. It’s not about saying it. It’s about meaning it.”

Her voice lowers, almost absent now. “Witchtongue doesn’t ask for power.”

*page_break She looks at you again

“It remembers it.”

She offers you a blank ribbon. A brush. The ink waits.

It moves, almost. Or maybe it just reflects the flame wrong. You can’t quite tell.

You take the brush. Dip it.

The scent coils up—familiar, and wrong. Burned leaves. Crushed herbs. The skin on your arms prickles.

You write.

Not a full word. Just the shape of one. You don’t know it, but your hand does. 
A spiral curve, a line that breaks like bone, a point that sinks inward. It comes from somewhere deeper than memory.

You choose the word before you even think:

Remember.

As the ink touches cloth, the ribbon flares—not with light, but with weight.

It drops into you. Through you.

The stone beneath you is gone.

The lantern is gone.

You stand somewhere else.

A fire crackles. Shadows twist on a wall made of clay and smoke. A voice hums—a lullaby half-swallowed by exhaustion. 
Fingers brush your hair back. You are small. Someone kisses your forehead, murmurs in a tongue you don’t understand.

But you know the meaning.

“Thyllen keep you. My kethen, my vow.”

A mother’s voice. Not Laemir’s.

Yours.

The room returns like waking. The ribbon lies still in your hand. Dry. Slightly warm.

Laemir doesn’t ask what you saw.

She just nods.

“There are more,” she says. “But they come when you’re ready.”

You look down at the ink, at the other ribbons, at the pages still folded, waiting.

The language doesn’t belong to the tongue. It lives in the bones.

And yours have just begun to remember.

This was the true inheritance. Not the ink. Not the blood.

The returning.

Of something older than voice.

Older than names.

The language of witches.

The breath before the spell.
*page_break Next

The door doesn’t creak.
It exhales — a soft, breathless hush that lifts the tiny hairs on your arms and tells you, without sound, you are seen.

You step inside.

The room is not large, but it feels vast. Vast in the way roots are — not in width, but in depth. Old in a way that doesn’t need to prove itself. 
The air is thick with the scent of paper, cedar ash, dried herbs too bitter to name. 
Dust clings to the light as it slips in through slats above — not golden, not soft. Dim and waiting. A kind of listening light.

You don’t hear anything.

But you feel it — the hush that comes not from silence, but from attention. As though the space has been waiting for you. Not anyone. You.

No shelves.
No clutter.
No obvious spellwork curling at the edges.

Just the floor, uneven stone and old plank. A threadbare cloth that might once have been used for ritual — sun-faded, ash-burned at one corner. 
And in the center of it:

Four books.

Not stacked. Not stored.

Set with intention — one to each quarter of the cloth, like the directions in a compass, or points on a circle that once meant something. 
The air around them shimmers faintly — not with power, but with memory. Like breath still trapped in the space between their pages. 
The kind of presence that makes your skin ache before your mind catches up.

[i]They do not glow.
They do not sing.[/i]

And still, every part of you knows.

They are waiting.

Each one is different. A different spine, a different shape, a different kind of silence coiled inside. 
None of them are new — their edges are softened by time, by use, by hands that once held them like secrets. Or promises. Or warnings.

And still, none of them are dust-covered.
Someone has been here. Or something.
Keeping them.

Your throat is dry. 
You hadn’t realized your hands were shaking until one of them hovers too close, and the book beneath it — the blue one, 
almost grey now — hums so softly you feel it more in your teeth than in your ears.
*page_break You kneel

Not because it feels right. Not even because it feels safe. But because your body folds before you can command it otherwise. 
As though your bones remember a gesture your mind hasn’t learned yet.

*label end_books
You kneel before the four.
And the air feels heavier.
Not in warning — in reverence.

They don’t demand anything.

But the choosing has already begun.

Four books. Four truths. Four ways to split yourself open and find out what you’re made of.

And none of them want to be chosen.

They want to know if you’re ready to [i]become[/i].
*choice
	*disable_reuse #Echoweaving
		You reach toward the book that almost glows from within.

		It looks like woven silk—but when your fingers brush the cover, the fabric twitches. Responds. 
		The threads shift slightly, forming patterns and then unforming again like memory trying to return. 
		There’s something golden inside the threads, flickering like candlelight through gauze.

		[b]Echoweaving[/b]
		
		[i]The memory magic.[/i]

		The moment your skin touches it, your vision stutters—just for a second—and you are standing in your old home. 
		Not the way it was when you left it. The way it was before it burned. The smell of warm nettle tea. 
		The feel of your mother’s hand on the back of your head. It’s gone again before you can hold it. 
		The book lies still in your lap, pulsing faintly like something breathing just beneath the surface.

		[i]This is a book of visions.[/i]
		Of voices caught in the grain of wood, in the cracks of stone.
		It does not speak. It remembers.

		[i]And now... it remembers you.[/i]
		*goto end_books
		
	*disable_reuse #Whisperbinding
		You feel like this one calls to you in a different way.
		A pale thing—quiet in the corner, bound in something soft and pale-gray. No title. No marks. 
		But when you touch it, you feel everything. Not from the book—from the room. Sadness curled in the floorboards. 
		Joy caught in a single mote of dust. The book feels warm—not in temperature, but in recognition.

		[b]Whisperbinding[/b]
		
		[i]The emotion magic.[/i]

		This book trembles in your hands like a secret. Pages so thin they seem to vanish when you blink. 
		The moment you breathe too hard, it shivers. The moment you feel something, it responds. Anger curls the corners. Grief makes the letters blur.

		You realize you could lose yourself in this.
		Or become something new.
		A voice that turns fear into fire.
		A hand that silences rage before it begins.

		It [i]scares[/i] you, this one.

		But gently.
		*goto end_books
		
	*disable_reuse #Soulrooting
		The book is heavy. [i]Rough[/i]. The edges uneven, like it grew itself instead of being made.

		[b]Soulrooting[/b]
		
		[i]The spiritbound magic.[/i]

		It smells of loam. Iron-rich earth. The place between tree roots and silence. 
		When you lift it, your hands go numb for a moment—not from pain, but from weight. From meaning. 
		The pages aren’t pages at all but thin slices of pressed leaves, bark, 
		faded skins inked with symbols that seem to grow more familiar the longer you look.

		This book doesn’t want to be read.

		It wants to be planted.

		You hear it—not a voice, but something close. A whisper behind your ribs. Or below them. The dead remember you. 
		The forest remembers you. Even if you do not.
		*goto end_books
		
	*disable_reuse #Bloodspell
		The last book waits like a blade left on velvet.

		Deep red, but not garish. Threaded in dark stitching. The leather cover is warm from within, as though it’s been recently held. Or fed. 
		When you pick it up, your fingertip snags the edge of the clasp and you bleed—a single bead, red against the cover.

		The book absorbs it. Quietly. [i]Gratefully[/i].

		[b]Bloodspell[/b]
		
		[i]The sacrificial magic.[/i]

		This book doesn’t hum. It listens.

		You can feel the pulse of it, the way a wolf might feel a storm coming in its teeth. 
		Inside are diagrams—runes drawn in the shape of veins, spells tied to rhythms of heartbeats and consequence. 
		Every page carries a price. But it does not demand. It offers.

		[i]What will you give?
		
		What will you keep?
		
		What will you burn?[/i]

		You realize your hands are shaking.
		*goto end_books

	#There are no more books left
		*goto end_books_con

*label end_books_con
You step back.
*set magic_awakened true
Four books. Four doors.

None of them neutral.

Something shifts behind you, but nothing’s there. Just your breath, tight in your chest. Your fingers ache — like they already know which one they’ll reach for.

And before you think too long, before fear can lace your decision into silence—

You kneel.

Your hand moves.

You choose.
*choice
	#ECHOWEAVING — Memory Magic
		The moment you touch the cover, the book remembers you.

		It doesn’t open — it unfolds, like breath expanding after too long held. 
		The pages are soft as worn fabric, but inkless. Instead, the paper shimmers faintly, and where your fingertips graze, images rise. 
		A hand. A river. A child's scream muffled by snow.

		Then something grabs back.

		A memory, not yours, slams into your chest — heat, smoke, a crumbling hallway. You’re running, barefoot on charred wood. 
		Not your breath in your lungs, not your voice in your throat. A woman calls your name — your true one. You try to turn, to see her face—

		—but the page shuts itself.

		You fall backward, gasping.

		The book pulses warm once. Like a heartbeat. Or a door creaking open behind your thoughts.

		You’ve been marked. Not just as a reader — but as a witness.
		*set echoweaving +10
		*set magic_type "echoeaving"
		*goto after_book_choice

	#WHISPERBINDING — Emotion Magic
		The book doesn't hum — it listens.

		When you touch it, the air thickens like breath caught in a throat. 
		The leather cover gives under your palm like skin, warm, too warm, like it’s feeling you back.

		And the moment you open it, you weep.

		No trigger. No story. Just tears, full and sudden, rising from a grief that isn’t yours — and then it is. Loneliness, clawing and wild. 
		Joy, sharp as glass. You blink, and the room tilts — because you’re not alone.

		You’re everyone. All at once.

		Your chest heaves. There’s a name stuck in your mouth, but it’s not one you know.

		And then—
		A breath.
		Not yours.

		It’s gone.

		The book waits quietly, its pages fluttering like heartbeats.

		You know now: this isn’t a spellbook. It’s a vessel. And every spell it holds was once a feeling too big to contain.
		*set whisperbinding +10
		*set magic_type "whisperbinding"
		*goto after_book_choice

	#SOULROOTING — Spirit Magic
		The book is not a book.

		Not exactly.

		It’s bark and moss and something older than names. It doesn’t open — it unfolds, blooming gently in your lap, like a flower that’s never known fear. 
		The spine creaks with a living sound, not unlike bone, not unlike root.

		You breathe in.

		Pine. Earth. Rain before it falls.

		And then you hear it.

		A whisper, barely sound — not from the room, not from the book. From beneath you. From the stone. 
		From the wood in the walls. “Child of ash. Seed of silence.”

		The pages aren’t written on. They grow words as you watch — curling like vines, letter by letter. A question forms.

		“Do you remember what we buried?”

		The lights flicker.

		And behind your eyes, a forest stirs. Waiting.
		*set soulrooting +10
		*set magic_type "soulrooting"
		*goto after_book_choice

	#BLOODSPELL — Sacrificial Magic
		You feel it before you touch it.

		The book hungers.

		It doesn’t thrum. It doesn’t whisper. It waits, the way a blade waits — silent, patient, promising pain you’ll call worth it.

		When your fingers close around it, the binding bites your skin. Not hard. Just enough to bloom red.

		The clasp unlatches with a wet sound. You open it.

		The first page is blank… until a single drop of blood falls. Yours.

		Then the words rise, written in scabbed lines and symbols that pulse faintly with heat. A scent hits you — copper and ash. Like the pyres. 
		Like your mother’s cloak after she died.

		Your heart is suddenly too loud. Something inside you leans forward — not out of fear.

		Out of curiosity.

		The page whispers:
		“What will you give?”

		And gods help you — you want to answer.
		*set bloodspell +10
		*set magic_type "bloodspell"
		*goto after_book_choice

*label after_book_choice
The other books fall silent.

Not in anger. Not in rejection. Just… stillness. Like stones sinking beneath a pond, their weight no longer yours.

But the one in your hands?

It breathes.

Its cover, cool at first, warms against your palms as if remembering you — or deciding to. 
The script carved along its spine isn’t etched; it’s healed, like scar tissue forming the shape of a name you almost remember. 
When you blink, you could swear the letters shift, like veins beneath skin.
*page_break Something stirs behind your eyes

Not pain — not quite. A tug. A thread being drawn forward through your chest, soft and slow, until it catches somewhere deep in the back of your memory. 
A moment you don’t recall until it’s already happening.

You are you, and you are a child, standing barefoot in the ash-flecked snow. Fingers wrapped around your mother’s shawl. Her voice a hush in your ear:
“Some memories are borrowed. Some are bones. The trick is learning which ones speak back.”

You blink. The moment collapses like wet parchment. You're kneeling again, the book open now — though you don’t remember undoing the clasp.

Inside:
Not ink.
Not words.
But a memory waiting to be read.

A page of mirrorlike shimmer, and when your finger hovers just close enough—
—it jumps.

Sightless, you fall inward.

There’s fire. There’s screaming.
But you’re not afraid.

Not this time.

Because you’ve been here before. You just don’t know when.
Yet.
*page_break Next

The shimmer dims, but it does not vanish.
It folds inward—curling like breath pulled through a veil—and leaves the page warm beneath your fingertips.

And your birthmark aches.

Not pain.
Not even discomfort.
But attention.
As though the mark — that strange shape tucked along your ${birthmark}, always half-hidden and mostly ignored — is responding. 
Not to the book. Not to the memory. But to something beneath them both.

You draw your hand back.

The skin above your heart glows faintly — the birthmark, alive now with soft heat. You press your palm over it, instinctive. 
As if shielding something. As if answering something.
*page_break It beats once

Not like a heart — but like a drum. A call.
And something calls back.

The book stirs. Just slightly. The edges ripple as if wind had passed over them — though the air remains still.

And then, a faint outline curls up from the open page. Not ink. Not smoke. Not quite light. A symbol you don’t know — and yet do. 
You've traced it in dreams. You've seen it in frost, in moss on stone, in the branching of blood from a shallow wound.

The mark on your skin burns in time with it.

A word. Or the idea of one. Not to be spoken, but felt. You don’t need to ask what it means. You know.

Because the moment you see it, a feeling roots deep behind your ribs:

[i]"Kaelwen." - Called into life.[/i]

And now, beneath that word, three more symbols unfurl slowly. [i]Waiting.[/i]

[i]Reveal

Bind

Remember[/i]

They shimmer faintly, each a different pulse.
Each a different weight in your chest.

The book does not tell you which to choose.
It only opens the door.

And the mark along your collarbone thrums, as if to say:
[i]Some doors remember who you were before you ever knocked.[/i]
*choice
	#Reveal
		It hits like light through fog — sudden, merciless, blinding. [i]"Velarish..." - To lift the veil.[/i]

		The moment you touch the word, it leaps to meet you. Not a memory. Not exactly.
		More like the gap between memories — that raw space just before you wake up and realize you were dreaming.

		But this isn’t sleep. This wants you here.

		The floor vanishes, and your breath with it. You aren’t falling, but the world tilts anyway, until it becomes a corridor. Stone walls. 
		Dim firelight. Someone’s voice echoing — not yours. Not yet.

		You try to move, but your body isn’t yours anymore. You’re smaller. Lighter. The weight you carry isn’t in your hands but in your chest. 
		You reach out, as if by instinct, and the air resists you, thick as water. Then—

		A door.

		Wooden. Warped. You remember the pattern carved into the grain before you know what it means. 
		A broken circle, like a sun swallowed by its own shadow. Your fingers tremble. You don’t want to open it.

		You already know what’s behind.

		But the door isn’t locked. And your hand is already moving.

		Inside, the room is lit by a single candle, and your mother is there. 
		Not the one who raised you — not the soft voice and rosemary-scented hair — but the real one. Bone-straight posture. 
		Dark eyes like closed gates. Her presence makes the room feel narrower, smaller.

		She’s not alone.

		A figure leans close to her, draped in shadow and fur. You can’t see their face. But they speak in a voice low enough to sound like threat, or prayer.

		She answers in a tongue you don’t understand — but you feel it. Not on your skin, but in your birthmark. 
		It flares under your ${birthmark} like someone touched a hot coal to it.

		You know she’s speaking about you. You know this is the night something changed. A pact. A warning. A betrayal.

		You step forward — wanting to hear it, understand it — and the candle flickers.

		In that moment, her eyes dart toward you.

		Not toward the version of you hidden behind the memory — toward you, now, as if she sees through time, past death, into your marrow.

		You don’t breathe.

		Her voice slices the air.

		“The hour is not upon thee; thou art unprepared. Gaze not upon that which thy soul is unfit to bear.”

		The room crumples. The door splinters. You’re pulled backward like thread through a needle’s eye.

		You gasp, landing on your knees. Back in the stone room. Back with the book.

		The page before you has shifted — just slightly. The shimmer now forms the shape of that carved sun, broken and bleeding at the edges. 
		You know you’ll see it again.
		*page_break And the birthmark is still warm
		
		The room is still spinning. But the moment doesn’t leave you. It sits in your blood now, slow-burning like coals. 
		You try to rise—your knees weak, your fingertips tingling—but you’re not alone.

		Not in the way that matters.

		The room hasn’t changed, but your place in it has. There’s a pressure now behind your eyes, a weight behind the silence. Something watching. 
		Or remembering.

		You glance at the book. The symbol—the broken sun—is gone.

		In its place, your mother’s face. Drawn in ink? No. Ash. The portrait flickers, as if lit from behind by dying flame. You lean closer.

		And it speaks.

		But not aloud. Inside you.

		“If you find this, it means they didn’t kill you. It means the fire failed.”

		You freeze. Her voice is not kind, but it cracks with something worse than anger.

		Fear.

		“They’ll come again. But not all hunters wear swords. Some carry mirrors. Some speak like priests. Some love you.”

		The image starts to darken.

		“I gave you memory as a weapon. Don’t use it for comfort.”

		The ash-face breaks apart. Fades.

		You sit back, breath ragged. And realize: the broken sun was more than a symbol.

		It was a seal. You’ve undone something. Opened a thread.

		You don’t know what truth you’ve set loose—but now it knows your name.
		*set memory_reveal true
		*goto after_spell
		
	#Bind
		It begins not with a sound, but the absence of one. Your mouth moves without your command. It remembers. It follows. [i]"Thaloréth..." - To bind.[/i]

		A silence that gathers like stormclouds behind your teeth. You press your hand to the word — Bind — and the world inhales around you.

		You don’t move. But the room does.

		Or maybe it reveals itself, layers peeling back like bark from an old tree. 
		The stone beneath you thrums faintly, as though remembering how to be something more. A cradle. A cage. A grave.

		Then it begins.

		Not sight. Not sound. But sensation. A warmth at your chest that isn’t yours. A grief that clutches your throat before you’ve even named it. 
		You feel a pulse — faint, but certain — from the book itself.

		No. Not the book.

		Someone.

		It’s like being watched, but not with eyes. With longing. As if you are something lost, and someone finally found you. And that someone... loved you.

		You feel it too deeply to question. A mother’s hand cupping the back of your head. A whisper of lullabies soaked in smoke. 
		A voice humming from the next room, even though the house was empty.

		It’s overwhelming.

		You try to pull back, but your body betrays you. Your breath hitches. You are not alone in your own skin.

		And then — another thread weaves in. Not love this time, but fear. Sharp. Metallic. Older than you, deeper than the book. 
		It coils behind the warmth like a trap set beneath soft soil. You see — feel — a promise made in blood. Not words. Just intent.

		Let her live. I’ll pay the rest.

		The stone shudders. The book pulses. Your chest aches like something has been fastened to your ribs.

		And then — silence again.

		But not empty.

		You exhale. And the world feels brighter, somehow, like something sacred just passed through you and kept walking.

		Your fingertips are wet.

		When you look down, you expect blood.

		It’s ink. Thick. Gold. Dripping from the edge of the page.

		You don’t know what it means. Only that it came from you. Or from someone bound to you.

		And your birthmark? It hums. Not with power.
		*page_break With recognition
		
		The feeling doesn’t pass. If anything, it thickens.

		You push the book away, but the tether has already been formed. 
		You feel it in your teeth, in your ribs, in the way your heart responds to something outside yourself.

		You glance toward the shadows in the corner of the room.

		Nothing.

		And then—

		A whisper. But not like sound.

		More like... weight. The pressure of someone else’s grief settling inside your chest. It’s so familiar it steals your breath.

		You stand, slowly. The light doesn’t follow.

		The air hums.

		Something long-forgotten lingers here. The room begins to pulse, slow and deep, like a sleeping heart. 
		Your birthmark burns—not sharp, but steady, as if answering a call you didn’t hear.

		And behind you—movement.

		The book closes itself. Gently. Respectfully. As if it knows what it just offered.

		You reach out—not toward the book, but the silence it left behind.

		And something responds.

		A ripple. A warmth. You feel the shape of someone’s love, not just in emotion but memory of emotion. Their fear of losing you. 
		Their fury at what the world would do to a child like you.

		And you understand.

		Someone bound their soul to your safety.

		You don’t know who. Not yet.

		But the bond has not frayed. It is waiting.
		*set intention_bind true
		*goto after_spell
		
	#Remember
		You don’t touch the word. Not really.

		It reaches first. [i]"Seren’vae..." - To remember.[/i]

		The moment you let your breath fall still, the page pulls you down — not violently, not fast. 
		Like snow drifting over something buried. Soft, certain, smothering.

		You fall inward.

		And land in quiet.

		It’s not night. Not quite. The sky is blue the way bruises are blue, and the ground beneath your bare feet is cold with ash-dusted snow. 
		You look down. Your footprints are small, unsteady.

		You know this place.

		You don’t know how you know, but the air smells like frozen pine and rosemary oil. Something sharp in your lungs. A memory before language.

		Ahead, a path cuts through the woods. On either side, the trees lean close — not threatening, not welcoming. Just watching.

		You walk.

		The cold doesn’t bite. It knows you.

		You try to remember how old you are. Where you were before. What your name was, back then. Nothing comes.

		Except — a sound.

		Small. Barely more than breath.

		“Wait.”

		You turn. No one is there.

		But a hand reaches out from the edge of your vision — not to take, but to guide. Fingertips just brushing your wrist. You look up.

		No face.

		Just light.

		A voice follows, and this time it lands in your bones.

		“It’s time now. Don’t forget what you are.”

		You blink.

		You’re on the floor.

		The book lies open in your lap, still shimmering, but dim now — like moonlight at the end of a dream. 
		Your chest is tight. Your cheeks damp. You didn’t cry.

		But you remember.

		Not a memory, not yet.

		But a feeling.

		A direction.

		Something inside you has started walking — and you know it won’t stop.

		Not until it finds what was left behind.

		And when you pull your collar back, the birthmark glows faintly — shaped not like a scar, but like a door.
		*page_break One you just stepped through
		
		Even after you return, the snow clings to your senses.

		You can still feel the child’s footprints. The press of cold air inside your lungs. That soft voice — Don’t forget what you are.

		You whisper it aloud, just to test if it was real.

		It lingers.

		The shimmer on the page fades. The word is gone now. Remember. As if the act of remembering erased the instruction. But something has changed.

		The stone beneath you isn’t cold anymore. You press your hand to the floor and feel...

		...roots.

		Not real ones. But the echo of them. As if the earth itself responded to your return. The book crackles faintly, releasing a scent—damp bark, frost, rosemary. You recognize it.

		It was the last smell on your mother’s shawl.

		And for a moment, your senses sharpen. You hear wind, though no window’s open. You hear wings. Birds, maybe. Or something older.

		Something is calling you back.

		Not to the room. Not to the past.

		To the land.

		There’s something buried. Not treasure. Not power.

		A name.
		*set sense_of_place true
		*goto after_spell

*label after_spell
The room doesn’t return to silence.
It listens.

The book lies still, closed now — but the weight of it remains in your palm, as though it hasn’t finished speaking. Maybe it never will. 
Some words stay inside you, even when they aren’t yours.

You draw your hand back slowly, fingers shaking. The light around you seems a little dimmer, a little older. 
Or maybe it’s just your eyes — widened enough now to see things you couldn’t before.

Your birthmark pulses once. A quiet, aching glow beneath your skin. Not painful. Not warning. Just… there. Watching with you.

The other books haven’t moved, but they don’t feel idle. They feel aware. As if they’ve seen you choose, and in doing so, have chosen not to choose you back.
*page_break The circle is broken

A low sound stirs the air — not a voice. Not words. But something else, too soft and slow to name.
A breath. A turning. A presence behind the stone, beneath the dust.

You stand.

And something shifts.

The wall nearest to you — where only brick and lichen had been before — flickers. For half a heartbeat, it dissolves, as if pretending not to be solid anymore. 
You see the outline of a passage. Narrow. Hidden.

Waiting.

The book in your hands warms. Not with heat, but with a thrum that seems to echo beneath the skin.

Something about this path was never meant for feet. It’s memory-walked. Soul-etched.

But now it recognizes you.

And recognition, you’re learning, is a kind of permission.

You step forward. Not entirely by choice.

More like… answering.
*page_break Next

You don’t feel the page closing.
You only feel the room breathing again. Slow. Uneven. Like it’s waking up with you.

There’s a smell in the air now. Dust, yes. Old paper and moth-wool. But under that—
Ash bark. Cold water. The iron tang of something older than blood.

The book sits in your lap, closed but humming, like a heartbeat beneath leather.
It knows you.
And something else does too.

A sound.

Not a growl. Not quite a voice.
The sharp inhale before a word.

You turn—and the room is not the same.

The circle of books is broken. One is gone. Yours. And in its place, where the pages had rested on stone, is—

Not a creature. Not exactly.

It crouches in the space between being and not. Not shadow, not smoke, not beast—but it has weight, now, and shape. 
You can feel it pressing against the skin of the world. Fur made of ink. Eyes like cracked mirror. Legs jointed wrong but graceful. 
It blinks—and you remember a winter that never happened.

It tilts its head.

And waits.

A flicker touches your birthmark—warm, brief, like breath on skin.
The creature—your creature?—tilts its head the other way.

You don’t speak. You [i]feel[/i].

That old tug in your chest again, but softer now. Not a thread. A ribbon.
You reach—not with your hand, but your memory.
Something clicks.

And the creature steps forward.

One foot on the stone. Then two. Its body shifts, blurs. The shape is not fixed.
Not for your eyes, not yet.

But it speaks.

Not with words.
With a [i]memory[/i].

Your own voice, younger than it’s ever been: [i]“Will someone stay with me?”[/i]
And another voice, older than snow: [i]“Always, I am—wrought of that fragment of thy soul that ever yearned, and knew no stillness.”[/i]
*set meet_familiars true

*label choose_familiar
The creature walks a slow circle around you, brushing against your shoulder, and then stops behind you. Silent. Watching.

Waiting for the next call.
*choice
	#ASH RAT
		You do not notice it at first. Not until the light shifts strangely near the foot of the hearth, and a shape coalesces from soot and silence. 
		A rat, small enough to slip beneath a door, with fur like charred parchment and eyes of glinting ember-red. It watches without blinking. 
		As if it has been watching you longer than you've been alive.

		It doesn’t speak. It [i]remembers[/i]. You feel it before you understand it—a prickle behind your eyes, the taste of smoke and old rain in your throat. 
		Somewhere in your mind, a door creaks open, spilling a memory you didn’t know you still carried. A lullaby in a language you never learned. 
		The smell of your mother’s hands.

		The ash rat scurries forward and sits beside your foot, as though it had never not been there. It does not beg affection. It is memory made flesh. 
		And it has chosen you.

		In its spirit form, the ash rat becomes indistinct, more suggestion than animal—a drifting ribbon of ember-traced shadow, slipping through cracks, 
		whispering half-sung echoes of things lost. You might see it vanish into a broken mirror. You might hear it laughing in your dreams.

		It remembers everything you forget. And not all of it belongs to you.
		*goto choose_familiar

	#ARCTIC FOX
		You almost miss it.

		White upon white, still as snowfall. The only giveaway is the glint — not from its eyes, but from the silence around it. 
		A cold too clean. A pause too precise. And then it blinks.

		The Arctic Fox watches from the drift’s edge, half-vanished into frost. Its coat is not blank—it’s luminous. 
		Hints of moon-blue, storm-gray, glacial silver move beneath the white, like veins beneath skin. 
		Its ears flick, sharp and listening, though no sound follows. Not yet.

		You take a step. It doesn’t run. It doesn’t come closer either. This is not a test of loyalty—it is a test of stillness.

		The Arctic Fox does not speak, not in ways you’ll recognize at first. It offers presence, then absence. 
		Warmth, then the reminder of what it costs. It is not wild the way fire is wild. It is wild like the wind: uncatchable, unseen until it’s already past. 
		And yet—somehow—it’s yours.

		It follows in silence. You never hear its paws. But you will feel its gaze at your back when the path goes dark. 
		You will smell cold stone, and pine-skin, and old storm. 
		And sometimes, in the corner of your eye, you’ll see a white shape curled small beside your bed. Guarding. Waiting. Dreaming with you.

		Its spirit form is something else entirely.

		Not beast, not shadow. A drifting corona of snow and spectral light, its fur breaking into flakes mid-step. It leaves no prints. 
		Only memory. You might see its outline in the frost on glass. Or in the pause between your breath and your name.

		The Arctic Fox does not tempt or tease. It [i]endures[/i].

		When others rage, it watches. When others burn, it burrows. When you break, it does not speak—
		—it lies beside the pieces and waits with you in the cold.

		Until you are ready to rise.
		*goto choose_familiar

	#COALCAT
		You find her curled in the ashes of an old firepit, where no living thing should be sleeping. 
		A black cat, sleek and small, with white-tipped paws and a single white mark beneath her eye, like the trail of an old tear.

		She stretches. Yawns. Blinks slow, gold eyes. Then pads toward you with the kind of disdain only a creature ancient and uncaring can afford.

		She climbs into your lap without permission. And lays her head on your chest.

		The coalcat is a guardian of thresholds. She does not protect you from danger—she ensures you know when it's coming. 
		Her purring stills fear, but her claws remain sharp. She prefers twilight and doorways, loves hiding in spaces others overlook.

		When spirit-born, she elongates into something smoky, tail too long, eyes full of stars. 
		She becomes a dream-thing, the keeper of hidden passageways and secret names.

		She will not follow commands. But she will walk beside you, if she [i]deems[/i] you worthy.

		And she always knows who’s watching.
		*goto choose_familiar
	#MURK OWL
		You do not see it arrive.

		Only the hush it brings.

		Not silence, but a heavier kind — the way sound folds when snow falls at midnight, or how a church feels just before a name is spoken aloud. 
		The trees seem to draw back. Even your thoughts hush, involuntarily.

		Then you look up. And it’s there.

		Perched just above you, barely more than a shape in the dark. 
		Its feathers are a shifting gray-black, not like smoke, but like ink poured into water — roiling, slow, uncertain. 
		Its eyes are the opposite of flame: pale, silvery, full of unlight. Like they’ve seen too many things they wish they hadn’t. And are still watching.

		The Murk Owl does not blink. It does not flinch when you move. It waits. Not as a predator — not exactly. As a witness.

		When it speaks — if it ever does — the voice is not a voice. 
		It is the creak of old wood, the sigh of wind beneath a door, the whisper of wings where none should beat. 
		You’ll hear it in the moments between thoughts. The owl does not offer guidance. It asks questions you’d rather not answer.

		You might find it perched above your bed. Or outside a window that shouldn’t open. 
		Or standing, impossibly still, on the path ahead… where no branches reach.

		In spirit form, it becomes near-formless. A knot of shadow and ghostlight. The echo of feathers brushing your shoulder. 
		Sometimes, only the eyes remain — hovering in the dark, patient, unreadable.

		The Murk Owl sees into hidden places. It knows what festers, what waits. It remembers the things you’ve buried — and not all of them were mistakes.

		It is not comfort.
		It is [i]truth[/i].

		And it has chosen you not for your courage — but for your capacity to survive the knowing.
		*goto choose_familiar

	#FEN ECHO
		You first notice the scent—wet stone, moss, the iron tang of old water. Then the ripple. 
		A shimmer at the edge of your shadow, as if the air itself had a tide. 
		From it steps a dog, black as silted riverbeds, with paws the color of rotting leaves and eyes like lanterns lit beneath the surface.

		It doesn’t bark. It arrives.

		The Fen Echo watches you with a stillness that isn’t canine. It knows more than it should. Not of words, but of weight. Of sorrow. Of drowning things. 
		When it steps forward, it does not pad—it glides, paws leaving no mark on the earth, though the ground dampens beneath them.

		It sits beside you. Quiet. Steady. And suddenly, you feel [i]less alone[/i] in your grief.

		The Fen Echo is drawn to pain, but not to feed on it. To anchor it. To witness it without flinching. If you cry, it does not comfort you. 
		It simply remains, a breathing silence to hold the edge of what you cannot name.

		When the veil lifts, and its spirit emerges, the Fen Echo becomes a creature of river and mist. 
		Its body flows—sometimes with legs, sometimes without—its form constantly shifting, reforming, never fully fixed. The eyes remain. 
		Twin moons, too distant to touch. In this form, it can speak, but rarely does. And when it does, its voice sounds like yours underwater.

		The Fen Echo doesn’t obey. It follows. It mirrors. It senses what you won’t admit, and moves when your heart is ready before your mind is. 
		Sometimes, when you sleep, it curls beside your bed. Sometimes, you wake to wet footprints and no sign of it at all.

		It has been called to those who carry burdens that aren’t entirely theirs. 
		It has walked with the grieving, the forgotten, the ones asked to be strong too long. And now, it has chosen you.

		Not to lift your sorrow.

		But to make sure you never drown in it.
		*goto choose_familiar

	#GRAVETONGUE LIZARD
		It’s there before you see it.

		Perched on stone that shouldn’t be warm, bones tucked beneath its scaled belly, tail looped like a sigil. 
		It doesn’t blink. Just stares. Eyes like molten metal cooling beneath thin glass, fixed on you with a gaze that knows how death settles into marrow.

		The Gravetongue Lizard is small—no longer than your hand—but its presence pulls at the edges of the world. 
		The air smells faintly of myrrh and iron, and for a moment, your heartbeat doesn’t feel like your own. It feels older. Borrowed.

		When it moves, it does so deliberately. As if each motion were part of an old ritual, half-forgotten. 
		Its tongue flickers—black, forked, too long—and you hear something behind your ear. Not a word. A name. Yours, but spoken like a question.

		It climbs your shoulder uninvited. Its feet are cold and dry, but not unpleasant. 
		It settles at your collar like a secret, tail curling near your throat. You know, somehow, that it listens to the dead. And they listen back.

		The Gravetongue doesn’t protect you in any obvious way. It doesn’t fight, or frighten off. It [i]remembers[/i]. 
		Speaks in riddles that arrive too late or too early. It curls around your wrist when someone lies. 
		It flicks its tail against your skin when someone thinks of death. 
		When you walk near places where the veil thins—burial grounds, ruins, places forgotten—it hums in your blood like a tuning fork struck against bone.

		Its spirit form is stranger still.

		When unseen, it slithers through dust and memory. Its body dissolves into smoke and fossil, a skeletal glimmer threaded with ash-light. 
		You’ve seen it move across old gravestones without touching them. 
		You’ve heard it sing—not music, but a vibration you feel in your teeth, a lullaby for things that have stopped breathing.

		The Gravetongue Lizard is not comforting. But it is loyal. Fiercely. Once it chooses you, it will not leave. Even if you beg.

		It knows where you will be buried.
		And it has already memorized the shape of your name in stone.
		*goto choose_familiar

	#BRINDLE HARE
		You don’t see it until it runs.

		A flash of motion across the field. Something low to the ground, legs tucked tight, moving with the kind of velocity that feels like memory fleeing light. 
		By the time you register it, the hare has already stopped. Sitting. Watching.

		It’s mottled, not quite brown, not quite gray. 
		A coat like old bark and bruised cloud, streaked with pale stripes that shimmer faintly—like the suggestion of scars rather than markings. 
		One ear stands upright; the other bends slightly at the tip, like it once listened to something it wasn’t supposed to.

		It does not twitch nervously, as hares should. It waits with stillness that feels… earned. 
		And then it approaches—not cautiously, but with the resolve of something that has already fled too many times and grown tired of it.

		The Brindle Hare does not grant bravery. It reveals where it already lives [i]inside[/i] you.

		When you run, it runs faster—not to escape, but to lead. When you stand, it circles you once and stops at your back. 
		Not guarding. Just present. Like a second heartbeat. It doesn’t judge your fear. But it never pretends you don’t have it.

		Its spirit form flickers at the edge of vision. Antlers sometimes grow from its brow—tine-thin and translucent as winter branches. 
		Sometimes its paws don’t touch the ground. It leaves no tracks, only the soft pulse of wind through grass where it passed. 
		You might glimpse it in dreams, sprinting through moonlight without shadow. Or feel it brush against your knee when there’s no one there.

		The Brindle Hare doesn’t speak. But it always hears. And it always runs toward the place you won’t go alone.

		It doesn’t expect you to be fearless.

		Just to follow.
		*goto choose_familiar
	
	#You already know which of these is your companion
		*goto before_familiar

*label before_familiar
Are you sure that this is your true companion?
*choice
	#ASH RAT
		*set familiar_an "ash_rat"
		*goto after_familiar

	#ARCTIC FOX
		*set familiar_an "artic_fox"
		*goto after_familiar

	#COALCAT
		*set familiar_an "coal_cat"
		*goto after_familiar
	#MURK OWL
		*set familiar_an "murk_owl"
		*goto after_familiar

	#FEN ECHO
		*set familiar_an "fen_echo"
		*goto after_familiar

	#GRAVETONGUE LIZARD
		*set familiar_an "gravetongue_lizard"
		*goto after_familiar

	#BRINDLE HARE
		*set familiar_an "brindle_hare"
		*goto after_familiar

*label after_familiar
*if (familiar_an = "ash_rat")
	*goto after_ash_rat
*if (familiar_an = "artic_fox")
	*goto after_artic_fox
*if (familiar_an = "coal_cat")
	*goto after_coal_cat
*if (familiar_an = "murk_owl")
	*goto after_murk_owl
*if (familiar_an = "fen_echo")
	*goto after_fen_echo
*if (familiar_an = "gravetongue_lizard")
	*goto after_g_liz
*if (familiar_an = "brindle_hare")
	*goto after_b_hare

*label after_ash_rat
The hearth is cold.
	
Not just unlit—cold, as though something long buried still lingers in the ashes. You kneel, brushing aside soot. A whisper slips under your fingers. 
Not sound—a feeling. Smoke. Lullabies. A memory you never lived, but grieve anyway.
	
And then—eyes.
	
Red. Small. Watching from within the soot. The rat steps forward, thin tail dragging lines through charcoal dust. It climbs onto your knee and sits.
	
Your breath catches.
	
A scent of rain on burned wood. A flash of someone’s hands—a touch you remember only in feeling, not fact. 
The ash rat curls its tail around your wrist like a shackle. Not to bind, but to mark.

It does not ask.
	
It simply is. And somehow, you already know it always has been.

The fire has long since died, but warmth lingers in the hearth’s stones. You sit on the floor, cross-legged, as the Ash Rat curls near the cinders, unmoving.

You speak aloud—about nothing in particular. About dreams you can't remember. A street you used to walk. A name that feels like dust in your mouth.

The rat lifts its head.

Without a sound, it steps onto your knee, and then onto your chest. Its weight is nothing. Its heat, ancient. 
For a breathless second, its nose touches your forehead.

And then your vision [i]blurs[/i].

You are not in the room anymore. You are sitting in a memory. One that isn’t yours. Or maybe it was. A lullaby echoes. Smoke curls. 
You taste honey and ash.

When you blink, you are alone again.

But the Ash Rat remains, nestled in your scarf. Quiet. Unblinking. Watching.
*goto next_animal_s

*label after_artic_fox
The snow has fallen too quietly.
No wind. No birdcall. Just white—stretching out in all directions. You step through the drift, and for a moment, you think you’re alone. 
Then you stop. Not because you saw it.

Because it saw you.

The fox is there. Already watching. Already waiting. Its fur gleams—pearled with stormlight and secrets. Its eyes are glacial, unreadable. 
Not cold in cruelty—cold in endurance.

You move. It doesn’t.

The silence between you deepens, then shifts. Something unspoken passes. You don’t know what you offered. But it was enough.

The Arctic Fox turns. Begins to walk. And though its feet leave no prints, you follow.
*page_break Next
	
Night falls colder than expected. You curl into your cloak beneath a pine tree, hands numbed to stillness.

Then—movement.

The Arctic Fox doesn’t approach. It circles you slowly, barely making a sound over snow. You close your eyes.

And stillness becomes something else.

You begin to breathe with the cold instead of against it. Your heartbeat slows. You hear your pulse in the silence like a soft drum.

Then, warmth.

When you open your eyes, the fox is curled against your side. Fur against fur. Bone against bone.

You do not speak.

But you understand: it chose you because you knew how to listen to the hush inside yourself.
*goto next_animal_s
	
*label after_coal_cat
You return to the ruined firepit without meaning to.

Twilight hangs heavy. Shadows stretch. You expect emptiness. Instead, there’s warmth—small, purring, alive. 
A cat lies coiled in the ash, blinking slowly, gold eyes catching light that isn’t there.

She yawns. Pads forward.

With no hesitation, she climbs into your lap and places her head against your chest. You freeze—but not out of fear. Out of recognition.

She purrs. And in that sound, something else purrs back—inside you. Old doors creak. Names long hidden shift like dust. You were not waiting for her.

But she was always waiting for you.
*page_break Next

You light a candle. Not for warmth, but company.

The Coalcat appears without warning, as she always does—slinking from shadow with an arched back and flicking tail.

She watches you with disdain, then climbs into your lap as though offended by the wait.

You reach to pet her—and she bats your hand away. Hisses once. But then presses her forehead to your chest.

You don’t know why—but your heartbeat stutters. You feel seen in a way no eye ever sees.

Later, you find claw marks on your dream. You swear she was there, pacing the edges of a corridor your mind forgot.

And in the morning, she sleeps beside you.
*goto next_animal_s

*label after_murk_owl
You stand at the forest’s edge, heart pounding too loud.

Then—silence.

A pressure in your chest. Not fear. Stillness. You look up. The sky has thickened with dusk. And above you, a shape unfolds from shadow. Silent wings. 
Ink-poured feathers.

The owl lands on a branch just above you. It watches.

A question hangs between you—not spoken. Not even known. Your name, perhaps. Or what it will mean from now on. The Murk Owl tilts its head. It does not blink.

Then—without sound—it glides to you.

You feel no talons. Only [i]shadow[/i]. Only weight. It settles on your shoulder.

And suddenly, the silence is yours too.
*page_break Next

You wake in the middle of the night, unsure why.

The Murk Owl is perched above you, on a branch that wasn't there when you slept. Its head tilts.

You try to speak. Nothing comes.

Instead, it spreads its wings. Soundless. You follow.

Through forest. Fog. Unseen paths.

Eventually, you arrive at a still pond. The owl lands at the edge. You kneel, compelled.

Your reflection isn’t your face. It’s the face you wear in fear. In anger. In shame.

You meet its gaze through the water.

The owl hoots—low, resonant, like breath through bone.

And then the face changes. To one of quiet strength.

You look up.

The owl is gone. But a single feather lies on your shoulder, where your doubt used to be.
*goto next_animal_s
	
*label after_fen_echo
The mist clings to your boots.

You’ve walked farther than you should’ve. Into the marsh. Into the forgetting. The air tastes like wet stone and old stories. 
And then, just at the edge of your shadow—a ripple.

A dog-shaped shadow rises from the fog.

Eyes like drowned lanterns. Fur like river-silt and moss. It does not growl. It does not pant. 
It simply comes forward, pawsteps leaving damp impressions that vanish the moment you look.

It sits beside you.

You don’t speak. You don’t move.

Then, without touching, the sorrow in you shifts. Eases. The Fen Echo remains, unmoving. Guarding your silence. Mirroring your grief.

It has chosen you.

Not because you called.

Because it heard what you didn’t say.
*page_break Next

The bog breathes.

Mists coil like ribbon through reeds as the Fen Echo moves ahead of you, silent as dusk. You follow it not because you understand—but because you can't not.

It leads you to a still pool. Black water. Moonless sky.

You kneel.

It sits beside you.

You stare into the water—and your reflection begins to speak. Not aloud. Not in language. But in feeling.

The sorrow you’ve carried. The one you keep folded small in your chest—it rises. Thick as mud. Wet as grief.

The dog leans against you.

Not to comfort. But to endure it with you.

And in that endurance, the ache lessens. Just a little.

When you stand, the Fen Echo is beside you.

You are not healed. But you are not alone.
*goto next_animal_s
	
*label after_g_liz
The grave wasn’t marked.

Just stone and dust. And something pulsing under it. You reach toward it. Not the stone—the feeling. And then, beneath your fingers, something moves.

A flicker. A breath. A lizard, dark as ash and old blood, climbs atop the stone.

Its eyes meet yours. Bright and old.

It slithers to your shoulder, feet dry and cold. And stays. You hear something in your ear—your name, but not yours. 
The way it might sound on someone else’s tongue. Someone who knew you once. Or will.

The Gravetongue presses its tail against your throat.

And in that pressure, a [i]vow[/i] is made.
*page_break Next

You sit by an ancient grave no one tends.

The Gravetongue Lizard crawls from your shoulder and coils on the stone. Its tongue flickers once.

And then you hear the dead.

Not voices. Not clearly.

Feelings. Regrets. Warnings. Love, lost and still echoing.

The lizard’s body pulses with pale glow as if drawing breath from forgotten names.

It slithers back onto your hand. Wraps itself like a bracelet around your wrist.

In your veins, a chill. But also clarity.

From now on, in places of death and silence, you will not be deaf.

The lizard ensures that even the forgotten will have a voice—through you.
*goto next_animal_s

*label after_b_hare
You see it out of the corner of your eye.

A flash of brindled fur. Dappled legs. Ears tipped like brushstrokes. The hare moves like thought—there, gone, almost imagined. 
You chase it—not with force, but curiosity.

It pauses.

Looks back. And runs.

But never too far. Never where you can’t follow. Over roots. Through brambles. Through places you didn’t know you could fit.

Until suddenly—it stops.

Sits.

And [i]waits[/i].

When you step closer, it does not flee. It simply tilts its head, nose twitching, as though approving your pace. Not because you were fastest.

Because you were true.

The Brindle Hare doesn’t hop away again. It stays.
*page_break Next 

You chase it at first.

The hare darts through tall grass and moonlight, flashing between shadows like a falling star.

You try to follow. But you fall. You bleed. You laugh.

It returns.

Without judgment, it noses your wound. Then sits beside you.

You both look up at the stars.

The hare twitches once. Then—leaps through the sky.

A trail of glowing marks lingers in the air where it bounded.

You blink. It’s in your lap.

You realize then—it wasn’t about the chase.

It was about knowing when to stop running.

It was always running with you.
*goto next_animal_s

*label next_animal_s
*page_break You don’t remember falling asleep

There was a fire. The hush of your familiar’s breathing. The faint scent of pine, or ash, or salt—

But then...

A sky that isn’t a sky.

It arches above you like a shell of cracked porcelain, veined with gold and humming with something just below sound. Stars hang too close. One of them blinks.

You’re standing. Alone. Or no—your familiar is here too, though not as it was. Larger, maybe. Or older. 
Its eyes are the same, but deeper, as if they’ve seen this place before.

The world around you shimmers with wrongness. Trees that grow in loops. A staircase that curls into the air, leading nowhere. 
The ground pulses underfoot like breath. Or blood.

You try to speak, but your voice comes out as frost. It falls from your lips and shatters.

Then—they appear.

Two figures, opposite each other, across a mirror-flat stretch of water that wasn’t there a moment ago. They don’t walk toward you. They unfold into place.

One is robed in shadow and root, a [i]crown of something broken[/i] coiled in their hair. Their face is featureless. 
Their voice comes from the air behind your head:

[i]“The crossing bids farewell to one—choose not, for choice is vain.”[/i]

The other is firelight and thorn, smiling without teeth. They lean forward from their side of the water, and speak into your bones:

[i]“Yet one of you hath already fallen.”[/i]

You don’t understand. You feel it more than hear it. Like a dream you forgot and then remembered too late.

Your familiar growls—or is it singing?
*page_break You look down

Your reflection is missing.

And in its place — two figures.

Both you. But wrong.

The first stands too still. Its head turns, slowly, but its face is smooth where eyes should be—only skin, stretched tight like paper over an empty frame. 
It tilts its head, as if listening.

The second wears your face too well. Your exact smile, but wider. Held too long. It shows too many teeth. It doesn't blink.

You stagger back. The water at your feet shivers, dark as oil. The two versions of you do not follow.

But they do not vanish.

They simply wait.

They are watching.

Even the eyeless one.
[i]Especially[/i] the eyeless one.

And suddenly, you have the distinct, sourceless feeling—
that one of them is not trapped in the reflection at all.
That it is standing somewhere just behind you.

Breathing your breath.
*page_break Next

The silence is broken by the robed figure.

[i]“It was not thine to choose the path ahead,
But what within thee must be cast and shed.”[/i]

[i]“Or whom to be,”[/i] the one with a toothless smile replies.

Suddenly, the sky cracks. Hairline fissures race across the heavens.

And as they splinter, light floods the dreamworld like blood from a wound—

The figures vanish.
The water boils.
The voice returns, but closer now—right behind your ear:

[b]"Found you."[/b]
*page_break Next Chapter
*goto_scene chapter7